# certificateGenerator
Certificate Generator With GUI

This Java Maven project is a tool for training institutes and universities to generate PDF certificate files automatically. The project provides a GUI interface for the user to input the necessary information, including the name, department, course, gender, and score of the certificate recipient. Once this information is entered, the project creates a PDF file of the certificate and stores it in the "Certificates" directory within the project folder.

In addition to creating the PDF certificates, the project also stores the data entered by the user in a binary file using object serialization. This allows the user to view all of the certificate data in a table within the project.

The project also includes a certificate validation feature. Each certificate generated by the application has a unique ID, which can be used to verify the authenticity of the certificate and to determine to whom the certificate was issued.

# Demo Video
https://youtu.be/MDy6H4JP9Mc

# Installation: 

To install this project, user will need to clone this repository and open this project in an IDE. Then just build the project. 


# Usage: 

Run the project after you have built it. 

The GUI interface will then be displayed, allowing the user to input the necessary information to generate the PDF certificate. Once all of the information has been entered, the user can click the "Submit" button to create the PDF file. The PDF file will be stored in the "Certificates" directory within the project folder.

To view the data for all of the certificates that have been generated, the user can click on the "Show Data" button. This will open a table displaying the data for all of the certificates that have been generated.

To validate a certificate, the user can enter the unique ID of the certificate into the "Validate Certificate" field and click the "Validate" button. This will display the information for the certificate with the matching ID, including the name of the recipient and the course for which the certificate was issued. If there was no certificate recorded with the ID, it will show "No certificate found with this id". 

